.\" Created from Texinfo source by yat2m 1.32
.TH GPGTAR 1 2018-06-12 "GnuPG 2.2.9" "GNU Privacy Guard 2.2"
.SH NAME
.B gpgtar
\- Encrypt or sign files into an archive
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  gpgtar
.RI [ options ]
.I filename1
.I [ filename2, ... ]
.I directory1
.I [ directory2, ... ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgpgtar\fR encrypts or signs files into an archive.  It is an
gpg-ized tar using the same format as used by PGP's PGP Zip.

.SH OPTIONS

\fBgpgtar\fR understands these options:


.TP
.B  --create
Put given files and directories into a vanilla ``ustar'' archive.

.TP
.B  --extract
Extract all files from a vanilla ``ustar'' archive.

.TP
.B  --encrypt
.TQ
.B  -e
Encrypt given files and directories into an archive.  This option may
be combined with option \fB--symmetric\fR for an archive that may
be decrypted via a secret key or a passphrase.

.TP
.B  --decrypt
.TQ
.B  -d
Extract all files from an encrypted archive.

.TP
.B  --sign
.TQ
.B  -s
Make a signed archive from the given files and directories.  Thsi can
be combined with option \fB--encrypt\fR to create a signed and then
encrypted archive.

.TP
.B  --list-archive
.TQ
.B  -t
List the contents of the specified archive.

.TP
.B  --symmetric
.TQ
.B  -c
Encrypt with a symmetric cipher using a passphrase.  The default
symmetric cipher used is AES-128, but may be chosen with the
\fB--cipher-algo\fR option to \fBgpg\fR.

.TP
.B  --recipient \fIuser\fR
.TQ
.B  -r \fIuser\fR
Encrypt for user id \fIuser\fR. For details see \fBgpg\fR.

.TP
.B  --local-user \fIuser\fR
.TQ
.B  -u \fIuser\fR
Use \fIuser\fR as the key to sign with.  For details see \fBgpg\fR.

.TP
.B  --output \fIfile\fR
.TQ
.B  -o \fIfile\fR
Write the archive to the specified file \fIfile\fR.

.TP
.B  --verbose
.TQ
.B  -v
Enable extra informational output.

.TP
.B  --quiet
.TQ
.B  -q
Try to be as quiet as possible.

.TP
.B  --skip-crypto
Skip all crypto operations and create or extract vanilla ``ustar''
archives.

.TP
.B  --dry-run
Do not actually output the extracted files.

.TP
.B  --directory \fIdir\fR
.TQ
.B  -C \fIdir\fR
Extract the files into the directory \fIdir\fR.  The
default is to take the directory name from
the input filename.  If no input filename is known a directory named
\(oq\fIGPGARCH\fR\(cq is used.

.TP
.B  --files-from \fIfile\fR
.TQ
.B  -T \fIfile\fR
Take the file names to work from the file \fIfile\fR; one file per
line.

.TP
.B  --null
Modify option \fB--files-from\fR to use a binary nul instead of a
linefeed to separate file names.

.TP
.B  --openpgp
This option has no effect becuase OpenPGP encryption and signing is
the default.

.TP
.B  --cms
This option is reserved and shall not be used.  It will eventually be
used to encrypt or sign using the CMS protocol; but that is not yet
implemented.


.TP
.B  --set-filename \fIfile\fR
Use the last component of \fIfile\fR as the output directory.  The
default is to take the directory name from the input filename.  If no
input filename is known a directory named \(oq\fIGPGARCH\fR\(cq is used.
This option is deprecated in favor of option \fB--directory\fR.

.TP
.B  --gpg \fIgpgcmd\fR
Use the specified command \fIgpgcmd\fR instead of \fBgpg\fR.

.TP
.B  --gpg-args \fIargs\fR
Pass the specified extra options to \fBgpg\fR.

.TP
.B  --tar-args \fIargs\fR
Assume \fIargs\fR are standard options of the command \fBtar\fR
and parse them.  The only supported tar options are "--directory",
"--files-from", and "--null" This is an obsolete options because those
supported tar options can also be given directly.

.TP
.B  --version
Print version of the program and exit.

.TP
.B  --help
Display a brief help page and exit.

.P

.SH EXAMPLES

Encrypt the contents of directory \(oq\fImydocs\fR\(cq for user Bob to file
\(oq\fItest1\fR\(cq:

.RS 2
.nf
gpgtar --encrypt --output test1 -r Bob mydocs
.fi
.RE


List the contents of archive \(oq\fItest1\fR\(cq:

.RS 2
.nf
gpgtar --list-archive test1
.fi
.RE


.SH DIAGNOSTICS

The program returns 0 if everything was fine, 1 otherwise.


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgpg\fR(1),
\fBtar\fR(1),

The full documentation for this tool is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If GnuPG and the info program are properly installed at your site, the
command

.RS 2
.nf
info gnupg
.fi
.RE

should give you access to the complete manual including a menu structure
and an index.
